We see through the process of light
being transmitted through the eye to the retina,
which converts light into electrical
impulses that are sent to the brain.
The cornea refracts or
bends light onto the retina.
If the curve of the cornea is too flat,
too steep, or irregular,
light is refracted imperfectly
onto the retina, which affects vision.
LASIK is a surgical procedure
to reshape the cornea
and improve eyesight by correcting so called
“refractive errors.”
For nearsighted people,
the cornea is too steep and is flattened.
For farsighted people,
the cornea is made steeper.
And an irregular cornea
is smoothed out for those with astigmatism.
You’re awake during the procedure,
and your eyes are anesthetized with
special numbing drops.
Your eye is positioned under the laser
and a device is applied to keep the lids open.
A map is made of your cornea to highlight
the areas to be corrected.
The surgeon then creates a thin,
circular flap of corneal tissue
using an instrument called
a microkeratome or a laser.
The flap is folded back,
and a different laser is used to remove
tiny bits of corneal tissue
to reshape it based on the map.
The flap is then laid back
over the reshaped corneal tissue.